Python, CLI Docs... and Sphinx
==============================================================================

I want doc generation, like Ruby (YARD), Elixir (ExDoc), JSDoc/TSDoc/etc.,
whatever Crystal's is called, and presumably all owing back to the ol' Javadoc.

ExDoc for instance, seems great. You get API docs, they use Markdown, you can
add additional stand-alone Markdown files. Simple to write, useful to read.
In my opinion, that's about as good as you get for internal stuff.

Sneaky Snakes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Python, however, does not seem to have anything like that. There seems to be a
trend _against_ programmatic, comprehensive API documentation, which drives me
mad. The amount of seemingly undocumented classes you have to constantly deal
with using even the most routine facilities of the language, such as 

    dict(a=1, b=2).items() # type: <class 'dict_items'>

Crazy, huh? I always feel like I must just be missing something, and there's got
to be some public documentation on how such a common class can be used when,
say, implementing a container, but I have looked around more than once to no
avail.

The Head Of A Documentation Tool And The Body Of Rubble
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm not sure how the Python documentation situation came to be, but -- even
though Python haa docstrings and a built-in `help` function -- they seem to like
to write their documentation completely separately from their code. 

The tool of choice is Sphinx, centered around these independent doc files with
no inherent connection to the code/API/docstrings, written in _reStructuredText_
(reST), their own reasonably complex and (in my experience) un-intuitive markup
language that, as far as I can tell, is not useful in any meaningful way beyond
the Sphinx tool.

I'm not a fan, if you can't tell. But I haven't come across anything that really
seems like a better option.

So, can Sphinx be convinced to document our API using the information already in
it? Find out, in next week's episode of "why am I even doing this on a
Saturday?".

Generation Why Oh Why (Is This So Convoluted)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm looking at:

1.  https://betterprogramming.pub/auto-documenting-a-python-project-using-sphinx-8878f9ddc6e9
    
2.  https://eikonomega.medium.com/getting-started-with-sphinx-autodoc-part-1-2cebbbca5365


Neither really worked strait-up, but I was able to figure something out between
them.

    sphinx-apidoc --output-dir ./docs .
    cd ./docs
    make html
    open ./_build/html/index.html
    
I had added `'sphinx.ext.autodoc'` to `extensions` in `docs/conf.py` too, though
IDK if that matters or not.

That seems to produce what we want. Except it doesn't look to be using Markdown.
I had installed the [myst-parser](https://pypi.org/project/myst-parser/) package
per (1) above, and added it to `docs/conf.py`:

```python
extensions = [
    'myst_parser',
    'sphinx.ext.autodoc',
]
```

but that didn't seem to do the trick. I also tried

    sphinx-apidoc --output-dir docs/ --extensions myst_parser .

but that didn't seem to work either.

Gonna try following

<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/markdown.html>


